ENERGY REQUIREMENTS OF GRAY WHALES
================
Selina Agbayani
14 August, 2025

## GRAY WHALE LIFE CYCLE

![](figures/Figure1_Lifecycle_v6.jpg)

**Figure 1**. Gray whale life cycle, showing the approximate times of
year for different stages in the migration pattern over two years. Panel
A shows the migration for males and non-reproductive females, including
weaned juveniles. Panel B shows the approximate 2-year cycle for
pregnant and lactating females, including nursing calves. These charts
highlight the differences in migration timing between the mother/calf
pairs and other whales. Estimates and associated sources for number of
days in each life stage are listed in Table S1 in Suppl. Materials.
Adapted from Villegas-Amtmann et al. (2015).

## RESULTS

### Mass and Production cost (P)

![](figures/Figure2_Pcost_multiplot.jpg)

**Figure 2.** A) Production cost per day and mass growth curves for gray
whale calves. B) Production cost per day and mass growth curves for
juveniles and adult gray whales. Average production cost (MJ) per day on
the primary axis, represented as a dotted line, and total mass (kg)
shown on the secondary axis, as modelled by Agbayani et al. (2020)
represented as a dashed line. Gray shading represents the standard
deviation (±SD) around the mean from 10,000 Monte Carlo estimates.

### Total Energetic Expenditure (*E<sub>s</sub>*)

![](figures/Figure3_Es_sensanalysis_allstages_multiplot.jpg)

**Figure 3.** A) Estimates of average daily energetic expenditure
(E<sub>s</sub>) in MJ day<sup>-1</sup> for gray whale calves per month.
B) Estimates of average daily energetic expenditure (E<sub>s</sub>) in
MJ day<sup>-1</sup>for juveniles (1–7 y) and single adults (\>8 y),
pregnant, and lactating females per year. Values are plotted at the
midpoint of each month. Error bars show the standard deviation around
the mean of 10,000 Monte Carlo simulations. Note: E<sub>s</sub> values
for the 6<sup>th</sup> and 10<sup>th</sup> months represent energetic
expenditures across two activity stages (see Table S7).

### Gross Energy Requirements and Food Requirements

#### Gray whale calves

![](figures/Figure4_Phase1_GER_Milk_FoodReqs.jpg)

**Figure 4.** A) Daily average gross energy requirements (GER) for
calves in the first year in MJ day<sup>-1</sup>. B) Average daily milk
and food requirements for calves for each month in their first year. The
left panel represents milk requirements (L day<sup>-1</sup>) for calves
up to 9 months (left panel), and the right panel represents food
requirements (kg of benthic invertebrate prey day<sup>-1</sup>) for
weaned calves over 9 months. All values are plotted at the midpoint of
each month. Error bars show the standard deviation around the mean of
10,000 Monte Carlo simulations.

#### Juveniles/Adults, Pregnant, Lactating

![](figures/Figure5_GER_FoodReqs_pctbodywt_multiplot.jpg)**Figure 5.**
A) Daily gross energy requirements (GER) for gray whales over an annual
period (black circles) and during the foraging season when energy is
obtained only during summer and stored for later use (white circles). B)
Average daily food requirements (kg day<sup>-1</sup>) of benthic
invertebrate prey for pregnant females, lactating females, and others
(juveniles and other adult gray whales) during foraging season. C)
Average percentage of body weight consumed per day during the foraging
season for juveniles and other adults, pregnant females, and lactating
females. Note that the y-axis does not always start at 0. Panels from
left to right represent juveniles (1–7 y) and single adults (\>8 y),
pregnant whales including cost of gestation for the duration of the
pregnancy, lactating whales for the duration of nursing from birth to
weaning at 9.6 months (per Agbayani et al., 2020), pregnant whales for
the duration of the pregnancy and) the first 6 months of lactation while
fasting, and lactating whales in the last 3.6 months of lactation while
foraging in the Arctic feeding grounds. To calculate daily GER on an
annual basis for juveniles and single adults the GER was assumed to be
borne over 365 days and for the foraging season it was assumed to be
~154 days. For pregnant females, the annual GER was calculated over ~396
days and foraging season was assumed to be ~153 days. For lactating
females, the annual GER was calculated over 293 days and foraging season
was assumed to be ~119 days. Values are plotted at the midpoint of each
year. Error bars show the standard deviation around the mean of 10,000
Monte Carlo simulations.

## Sensitivity Analyses

### Gross Energy Requirements (*GER*)

![](figures/Figure6_GER_sensanalysis_allstages_multiplot.jpg)

Figure 6. Results from the sensitivity analysis of the gross energy
requirements (GER) of gray whales for: A) calves, B) juveniles (1–7 y)
and single adults (\>8 y), C) pregnant whales (including first 6 months
of lactation), and D) lactating whales (last 3.6 months). The parameters
shown are production cost (*P*), energetic expenditure
(*E<sub>s</sub>*), digestive efficiency accounting for fecal and urinary
loss (*E<sub>F+U</sub>*), heat increment of gestation (*H<sub>g</sub>*),
production cost of a newbord (*P<sub>newborn</sub>*), gross energy
requirement of a calf in first 6 months while nursing (GER calf first 6
mo.), and gross energy requirement of a calf in last 3.6 months of
nursing (GER calf last 3.6 mo.). Not shown are the pregnant only and
lactating (from birth to weaning at 9.6 months) because the pattern for
the range of uncertainty for these are similar to those shown in C) and
D), except where pregnant only would not have a variable for GER of a
calf, lactating (from birth to 9.6 months) would have a variable for GER
of a calf from birth to 9.6 months that has a negligible contribution to
range of uncertainty.   

### Total energetic expenditure (*E<sub>s</sub>*)

![](figures/Figure7_Es_sensAnalysis_allstages_permth_peryr.jpg)

Figure 7. Sensitivity analysis for mean daily energetic expenditure
(*E<sub>s</sub>*) in MJ day<sup>-1</sup> for gray whale calves,
juveniles (1–7 y) and single adults (\>8 y), pregnant, and lactating
whales. The parameters shown are percentage of oxygen absorbed
(*%O<sub>2</sub>*), respiration rates (*R<sub>s</sub>*), and tidal
volume (*V<sub>t</sub>*).

### Es sensitivity analysis by activity stages

![](figures/Figure8_Es_stacked_phase1_2_multipanel.jpg)Figure 8. Results
for the sensitivity analysis for mean daily energetic expenditure
(*E<sub>s</sub>*) of gray whales for: A) calves by activity stage, and
B) juveniles (1–7 y) and single adults (\>8 y) by activity stage. The
same pattern occurred for pregnant and lactating whales, where foraging
contributed the highest amount of energy expenditure and largest range
of uncertainty (see Figure S2 and Figure S3).

## Supplementary Figures: Es sensitivity analysis for pregnant only and lactating whales (from birth to 9.6 months) by activity stages

![](figures/FigureS2_Es_sensAnalysis_preglact_by_activitystage.jpg)Figure
S2. A) Sensitivity analysis for energetic expenditure (*E<sub>s</sub>*)
of pregnant whales by activity stage. B) Sensitivity analysis for
*E<sub>s</sub>* of lactating by activity stage. The parameters shown are
percentage of oxygen absorbed (*%O<sub>2</sub>*), respiration rates
(*R<sub>s</sub>*), and tidal volume (*V<sub>t</sub>*). .
